*** cvsupd. - Sep 17 2001 - Fixed by Mike on Sep 24 2001

The old version of cvsupd had the billenium bug, whereby number of
seconds since the epoc is greater than 1billion, and thus breaking
cvsupd. Upgrading was a disaster on Linux. It appears the new version
was trashing the boot block in Linux, and so nodes were not booting
after a cvsupd run.


*** mountd/exports - Sep 17 2001 - Needs to be fixed

Reported by Matt on Sep 17 2001, but actually a known bug with the
exports_setup script and the current mountd/kernel impl, which wipes
out all mounts before installing the new set.  This causes transient
failures in NFS access from the testbed nodes since the mounts become
momentarily invalid.


*** Batch Mode Nits - Sep 18 2001 - Fixed by LBS on Sep 25 2001

Reported by Mike.

Nit: experiment create date in Experiment Info "header" is not set.
Is this field meaningless or just not filled in correctly?

Nit: there are two "header" tables shown
I assume this is bacause the batch code prints out a header and then calls
the regular experiment info script to do the rest.  Anyway, the second table
is missing lots of date info as well.

Nit: web page for expr takes forever to show the nodes that were allocated.
For a regular experiment, the allocated nodes show up almost immediately,
presumably as soon as assign is done.  For a batch experiment, it seems to
take minutes.  I can go out and look at assign.log and see that nodes have
been assigned almost right away, they just doesn't wind up in the report
(the DB?) for awhile.


*** Shell experiments - Sep 18 2001 - Needs to be fixed

Reported by Rob.

Perhaps a feature instead of a bug. Shell experiments remain in the
"new" state, and are thus not cleaned up (nodes frees) when the
experiment is terminating. I view that as intended behaviour, but its
easy to change, so we should.


*** Broken lilo.conf - Sep 17 2001 - Partially fixed by LBS on Sep 24 2001

Reported by Matt (and then Rob).

According to Matt, our lilo.conf file is broken. In the next version
of the disk image, we should fix it. Matt sent a fixed version to
testbed-ops on Sep. 17 that we could use as a base.

Partially fixed means I hardwired some assembly code to the serial
line at 115200. A bug was causing it to go to the VGA all the time,
and the higher speeds are just a mess in lilo and I did not want to
mess with the assembly language. Too much of a time sink.


*** IPOD support - Sep 17 2001 - Needs to be fixed.

Reported by Rob.

Our Linux kernel needs to be rebuilt with ping of death support.


*** DummyNet support - Sept 19 2001 - Needs to be fixed.

Reported by Jay.

We need to pass through more DummyNet pipe configuration parameters
for delay nodes. It basically needs some front end parser work (not
too hard), and some changes to the DB where we store that stuff (a few
tables, not too hard), the tmcd to return the additional stuff (not
too hard), and the client delay configuration to use the additional
stuff when configuring the pipes (not too hard).


*** Multiple batch/reload daemons. - Sept 24 2001 - Needs to be fixed.

It is possible to start multiple batch and reload daemons (and many
other TB daemons). Can really mess things up!


*** No text box in approve user page - Sept 24 2001 - Needs to be fixed.

Reported by Mac.

We need to add a text box for sending a message to the applicant, just
like we have in the project approval page.

*** Cleanup of batch experiments - Sep 26 2001 - Needs to be fixed.

Reported by LBS.

Batch experiment system was created before Chris' big rework of the
tb system. At this point, it would be cleaner to combine the batch
experiment table into the normal experiment table (would result in a
couple of extra slots). The two tables make for consistency and
locking problems. What I do like about the current batch system is
that it is more scriptable cause most stuff is done in the backend
script; the web interface does just a bit of checking and then passes
the whole thing off. The normal experiment creation path should look
like this too, since splitting stuff between the web interface and the
perl scripts is messy, and the PHP DB interface is not as nice or
robust as the perl interface.

