
Desc: README for Mezzanine package
Author: Andrew Howard ahoward@usc.edu
CVS: $Id: README,v 1.1 2004-12-12 23:36:33 johnsond Exp $

Abstract
--------
Mezzanine is an overhead 2D visual tracking package intended primarily
for use as a mobile robot metrology system.  It uses a camera to track
objects marked with color-coded fiducials, and infers the pose
(position and orientation) of these objects in world coordinates.
Mezzanine will work with almost any color camera (even the really
cheap ones), and can correct for the barrel distortion produced by
wide-angle-lenses.

Mezzanine is also language and architecture neutral: object poses are
written into a shared memory-mapped file which other programs can read
and make use of as they see fit.  Mezzanine itself is written in pure
C and was developed under Linux on x86 hardware.


Documentation
-------------
Full documentation can be found in the user manual: docs/mezzanine.pdf.
This file contains instructions for building mezzanine.


Package contents
----------------
mezzanine : the visual object tracker.
mezzcal   : a calibration tool for the tracker.
libmezz   : an IPC library for talking to mezzanine.
libfg     : a simple Video4Linux library written by Gavin Baker (thanks Gav!).
rtk2      : a gui toolkit used by mezzcal.
examples  : sample programs.
docs      : package documentation.


System Requirements
-------------------
Mezzanine is known to work on Linux x86 systems running 2.4.X kernels.


Third party libraries
---------------------
Mezzanine requires the Gimp Toolkit (GTK+ 1.2) available from:
  http://www.gtk.org
Mezzanine also requires the Gnu Scientific Library (GSL 0.9 and above)
available from:
  http://sources.redhat.com/gsl/
Both libraries come as RPMS in RedHat distros, although GSL is 
not usually installed by default.


Building Mezzanine
------------------
Currently, Mezzanine is not using autoconf, so you will just have
to build it the old fashioned way.  Assuming the required third-party
libraries are installed, you should be able to just:
  
  $ make; make install

from the top-level directory (i.e. the one you found this README in).
By default, Mezzanine will install in your home directory rather than
/usr/local/bin, so you wont need root permissions to install it.  You
will, however, need to append ~/mezzanine-<VERSION>/bin to your
executable path.


Build Options
-------------
Various build options, including the default installation path,
can be changed by editing Makefile.opt.


Bugs
----
Mezzanine is research software, and is bound to contain some bugs.  If
you've broken something (or better yet, fixed something), please
submit a bug report to 

  http://sourceforge.net/playerstage  

Make sure you include the Mezzanine and OS version, together with a
detailed description of the problem.  While there is no warranty on
this software, we'll try to fix things for you.






